Section: Java History

Questions & Answers:

Q1) Why Java is developed?
A: Java is a programming language that was mainly designed to develop internet applications by providing independency.

Q2) When should we use C language & when should we use Java language?
A: If you want to develop system applications such as device driver softwares, you can use C language but if you want to develop internet applications then go with Java.

Q3) What are the important features of Java?
A: Simple, Object-oriented, Secure, Multithreaded, Robust, High performance, Portable, Distributed, Architecture Neutral, Dynamic

Q4) What is OAK?
A: Oak is a discontinued programming language created by James Gosling in 1991, initially for Sun Microsystems' set-top box project. The language later evolved to become Java.

Q5) What is the abbreviation of Java?
A: There is no abbreviation of Java.

Q6) What is a platform, Platform Dependency and Platform Independency?
A: Platform: An environment which contains hardware or software components and which helps in running applications. Example: Operating System (OS) --> Windows
   Platform Dependency: When applications are unable to execute on other OS then the one in which it was compiled.
   Platform Independency: When applications can be executed from any OS no matter in which OS it was compiled.

Q7) What is the meaning of 
	a. source code, compiled code, executable code
	b. compilation, execution
	c. compiler & interpreter
A: a. source code: Programmer written code, compiled code: Code we get after compiling source code, executable code: Code that can be executed (.exe) file
   b. compilation: Process of converting source code into compiled code, execution: Process of executing a compiled code
   c. compiler: a translation program that converts source code to compiled code at a time, interpreter: a translation program that converts sourcecode into machine language line by line. (But in Java, interpreter converts bytecode produced by compiler into machine understandable code.) 
	
Q8) Why C, C++ programming languages are platform dependency?
A: C, C++ programming languages are platform dependent because their source code is converted into machine language during compilation phase itself.

Q9) How Java achieved Platform Independency?
A: Java achieved platform independency by moving generation of machine language from compilation phase to executation phase.

Q10) Why JVM is platform dependent?

Q11) What is the Java's slogan?
A: Write Once Run Anywhere (WORA)

Q12) Explain why Java is called language, platform, & technology?
A: Java is a language as we can develop internet application using Java.
   Java also contains JRE (Java Runtime Environment) which helps in executing java applications on top of exisiting OS.
   Java contains API and usable applications that helps in developing other useful applications.